## Setting up RTK GPS on a Raspberry Pi

I want to race RC cars.  But I don't want to drive them.  I'd probably suck at it.  I'm really pretty sure about that.  So they have to drive themselves.  There are a bunch a ways to get an RC to drive itself.  When you are outside gps is a good choice, but it has to be the right kind of gps and it must be setup the right way.  You also need software to read and interpret the data sent by the gps.  My automonous RC car uses the [Donkeycar](https://www.donkeycar.com/) framework for small scale car racing, so I'm adding gps support to that framework.  An autonomous car also needs a computer to run the software.  Donkeycar supports the Raspberry Pi or the Nvidia Jetson Nano as the brains of the car.  I've tried both, but one worked better than the other for this purpose.  More after this commercial break...

Just kidding, no one would sponsor me.  It turns out the Raspberry Pi works a little better, but either can work.  I'll talk about both.

First lets talk about gps satellites.  The term GPS (Global Position System) is commonly used to refer to satellite positioning systems generally, but technically it refers to the to American system of positioning satellites provided as a service of the United States government.  Other systems have been added (generally also by goverments).  The Russian government from the GLONASS system, China provides the BeiDou system and the European Union provides teh Galileo system.  There are other smaller regional systems, some based on a combination of satellites and land based installations.  The more the merrier; literally, if you get happy about coverage, accuracy and speed.  In this discussion I'll use lower case gps to refer to these system collectively and upper case GPS to refer specifically to the American system.

Next, let's talk about the kinds of GPS devices available for using the satellite postion systems to get your position on the Earth.  Since the American GPS system was first early chips only talked to it.  Then when GLONASS came online chips started supporting both GPS and GLONASS, even simultaneously.  Newer chips support GPS, GLONASS, BeiDou and Galileo and some of the smaller system.  The most popular devices are based on chips created by a company named [U-Blox](https://www.u-blox.com/).  They have lots of different GPS chips for various purposes and with varying capabilities.  Their latest chips are series 10.  You can still find series 6, 7, and 8 out there.  The series 8 chips are much better than 6 or 7; they support more kinds of satellites and more simultanous satellites.  I'm using device with a series 9 chipset; it is a big improvement over series 8 because it supports yet more satellite systems, more simultaneous connections and most importantly, it supports a second frequency band (L2) for higher precision measurements.  Newer is better.  Ask any baby.




